Recollection:

My high school days was a bitter-sweet experience that is still etched to my mind. The curriculum that I went through was vigorous and daunting. At times, I felt I was in a communist led country where high discipline is instilled and restrictions a plenty. The school expected high standards of results from each student, it was competitive, if you fall behind, your peers row the boat on their own forward. Albeit the tough conditions at a growing age, there are some teachers that made studying a joyful experience, others are just there to do their job and instill fear in us. I did believe that there was a dire need to change (then) and add more values to the education curriculum in Singapore. When in school, I felt like I was clouded by fear of failing and I was surrounded by some teachers who are intimidating. It affected me psychologically but, fortunately, not to the extreme end. I had a few close friends, but many were pretentious, there was a lack in the community bondness. I feel that education is a means of seeing, as a means of knowing thus honing competencies and consciously and visually literate in domains that I was clearly lack of such as self, community and global. With the right curriculum, it could propel the development of a student’s cognitive and emotional abilities, while providing opportunities to build positive relationships for oneself and with others. 

The nature of a good education curriculum nurtures a student and encourage students towards achieving global literacy and awareness. 
