Cultural Appropriation Roundtable

The roundtable discussion on cultural appropriation in the ArtForum article raised interesting points on the conversation at large.  I find this topic particularly poignant as I think anyone engaging in the discussion usually has firmly held beliefs. It is a loaded subject matter in this sense which often leads toward heated debate.  It’s therefore additionally important to approach the conversation with care and awareness. 

There was a particular comment made by Gregg Bordowitz that struck me in this discussion.  In reference to American sports teams use of Native American imageries, he recounts a comment by an American Indian activist who stated, “What part of ouch do you not understand?”  The simplicity of this question resonates the density of cultural appropriation as an offense tool.  And with this, I challenge the broader notion in the discussion that intentionality is what deems appropriation just or unjust.  Ignorance is not a good excuse for insensitive behavior.  That being said, I firmly believe that cultural nods based on admiration are fundamentally different from insensitive adaptations.  Ownership over forms of expression are very difficult to defend unless truly culturally specific.  

The ‘problem’ with this conversation (not the roundtable, but from the overarching macroscopic view) is that it serves to divide.  As society as a whole leans toward inclusion and equality, it feels counterintuitive to simultaneously build walls.  

In the cases of ‘appropriating’ artistic approaches, images, and style, I support the argument that the internet age is in direct support of ‘borrowing’.  The modern human is  under continuous subliminal attack and in the same ways that we form our prejudices and opinions, we also form our likes and formulate the people that we strive to be.  If done with respect and historic context in mind I believe that this is a fundamental part of cultural evolution; and something to be valued.  With this in mind, it is also tasteful and wise to be aware of the subjects(s) that are sensitive and better left untouched.  
