# Unlearning: Reading Responses

While I agree with [Coco Fusco](https://hyperallergic.com/368290/censorship-not-the-painting-must-go-on-dana-schutzs-image-of-emmett-till/) and [Jacolby Satterwhite](https://blogs.brown.edu/hiaa-1810-s01-fall-2017/files/2017/08/CULTURAL-APPROPRIATION-A-ROUNDTABLE-artforum.com-in-print.pdf) that Dana Schutz's painting _Open Casket_ should not be destroyed, there's quite a lot of middle ground between destroying a painting and exhibiting it in the Whitney Biennial. For me, the question is not so much whether Schutz had the right to make a painting that appropriated black trauma, but rather why the Whitney Museum and the curators of the Biennial chose to include her work. Why does _Open Casket_ deserve a spot in a highly publicized art exhibition? Would it be censorship to give another work of art representation at the expense of Schutz's painting?

I think that [Helen Molesworth](https://www.artforum.com/print/201803/helen-molesworth-on-the-work-of-simone-leigh-74304) gets at this issue in her article on Simone Leigh's _The Waiting Room_. Molesworth asserts that "the museum...with its familiar humanist offerings of knowledge and patrimony in the name of empathy and education, is one of the greatest holdouts of the colonialist enterprise." In order to reconcile with their historical role in perpetuating systemic racism, American museums need to not only give space to black artists, but also take some space away from white artists. This is particularly true when it comes to art that depicts the suffering of black people. It's not that white artists like Dana Schutz can't produce anti-racist art, but rather that the Whitney Museum shouldn't be giving that art a platform in the Biennial.
