I have always been very intrigued by mass demonstration. In my younger days, my view of mass demonstration in large groups of number has always been negative. I feel that they could carry a potential threat which may lead up to violence. However, I do realize the symptomatic aspect of mass demonstration where it could influence, bring awareness or reiterate a movement that connote a strong voice or opinion for a cause or a occurring event that needs to be addressed. The performative nature of art can form signs and gestures of collective visual vocabulary which carry a baggage of great beauty and power.

It is its value that encourage a public spectacle without conforming to violence, giving a possibility of a stronger awareness. In our digital era, the internet has been a strong power of influence. A couple of years ago in Singapore, we had our election for the ruling party to govern our country. The strong community of people who were in social media created series of online demonstration which was not apparent but brought about influence to the voters. The event made me realize that online communities are easily intrigued by visual references when they are constantly exposed to it, especially when they are in a space where they too could easily contribute to the demonstration and be anonymous. In the recent event that manifested involving the abuse of data from Facebook, it further prove this shift of physical public spectacle of demonstration to the power of online presence rehearsing possibilities of carrying a strong influence or change.

Perhaps it is time that artist make this shift of making a stronger online presence, translating and rehearsing their voice in a digital setting where tangibility is within reach to the viewer.