# Response to [Unpresidented Times: Chitra Ganesh"](https://www.artforum.com/slant/chitra-ganesh-on-the-election-65829)
Artforum, Chitra Ganesh

First, I want to acknowledge that the clever titling of this article is what made me choose to read it first of the three. Moving past that, the overarching theme appears to be that mass demonstrations in themselves are not the revolution, but are instead the rehearsals for revolution. In the words of the author, demonstrations such as those discussed are a “visual vocabulary of resistance that accrues great beauty and power in our image-dominated age” and are very vital in their role as preparation for any revolution(s) to come. Think Black Panther and Erik Killmonger’s lifelong preparation to overturn King T’Challa and use Wakanda for the good of Black people everywhere. While fictional, the villain of this Marvel film resembles very real experiences, including the "demonstration as practice or workup for revolution" model examined in the article.

# Response to [Art is Medicine](https://www.artforum.com/print/201803/helen-molesworth-on-the-work-of-simone-leigh-74304)
Artforum, Helen Molesworth

I feel that I could discuss the topics addressed here all day, especially the concept of “space claiming” and privacy, and its relevance in Black History. Instead of rehashing what was said, I want to address the fact that for the most part, Afrotectopia successfully accomplished the claiming of a space not designed for black people and left a craving, a need for more spaces just like it. Ari Melenciano is preparing to join the list of women who, like Simone Leigh, have kickstarted events, programs, organizations, artworks and spaces in general, operated by and for black people. While this may read as a direct response to the event and its founder, it is but a nod of appreciation and correlation. Leigh’s agenda is as important (even though less public) today as Rosa Parks’ and the women of the United Order of Tents, and her call to create this facility influences those to follow. (FANTASTIC article. Thank you Taeyoon!)
