In "Unpresidented Times," Chitra Ganesh jumps between several topics, focusing on finding a path forward after Trump's election and the emergence of other right-wing populist, reactionary movements around the world.

The article begins with a quote from John Berger, "The truth is that mass demonstrations are rehearsals for revolution: not strategic or even tactical ones, but rehearsals of revolutionary awareness." Given the historical context of this piece - published 10 days before the 2017 Women's March - it is interesting to think how the meaning of this quote has changed over the past year. To me, I have had the feeling that the protests have been more "rehearsals of revolutionary awareness" than they have been "rehearsals for revolution." There is a subtle but important distinction between the two, where the former is about building awareness and the latter is about concrete action. I think the protests since Trump have been successful in generating this awareness, but they have fallen short in moving us closer to revolution. It seems this raised awareness will translate to a "blue wave" in the 2018 midterm elections, which will revert the country back to some previous version of the status quo.

Ganesh provides a great explanation for all this: "The daily grind of resistance includes a profound and often painful awareness of the deeply contradictory realities we inhabit, of one’s complicity or indirect involvement, in even the smallest of ways, in maintaining the status quo." This complicity is very powerful and difficult to overcome. The concepts we discussed in class - plasticity and unlearning - will be helpful approaches to addressing this inertia. The process of unlearning can begin once we own up to our roles in perpetuating systems of inequality. However, the question remain - even though we have the ability to reconfigure our brains and the world, will we choose to do so?
