# Reflections on place and being

This week’s readings were personal reflections on place, identity, and history. When viewed from the lense of teaching, these are fundamental to the experience of both teachers and students.

As teachers, where we teach has a profound impact on how we teach and how our students absorb what is taught. Inadequate space or a lack of support from administering institutions constrains what can be accomplished over the course of a class and can chip away at a teacher’s resolve. Diminished resolve can undermine a teacher’s sense of identity as an educator, engendering a feeling of inadequacy that can slowly (or quickly) push her out of the world of education. I have seen this first hand with my friends who, burned out by their experiences teaching and fed up with the bureaucracy of our education system, have abandoned teaching for better paying work that gives them more agency as professionals. A history of undervaluing teachers, at least here in the US, all but ensures this vicious cycle and tarnishes the reputation of a profession that is so essential to molding future citizens. 

Students are equally impacted, if in different ways. A crowded classroom creates distractions and anxieties that impede learning. Troubled home life affects attendance and attention, undermining learning and instigating behavioral challenges. Students are exploring and searching for their identity; insecurity created by instability that in turn impacts performance reinforces a negative cycle that ripples through the students life, making it difficult to avoid repeating the past, potentially stunting their future growth. 

How do we mitigate these detriments to teachers and students, causes and effects that compound each other in disempowering, demotivating cocktails of desperation and despair? Perhaps the place to start is with the place itself: the classroom, the home, the community around which the good and bad experiences of being a teacher or a student revolve. A place or space that is welcoming, familiar, reminiscent of home and family can make all the difference. It's like pot in which hope and confidence –key ingredients in a happy, productive life– can be mixed and melded into a recipe for success. 
