# Platform: Reading Responses

I'm struggling to find the right words to respond to this week's readings, particularly Nasrin Himada's [For Many Returns](http://contemptorary.org/for-many-returns/).

I feel compelled to acknowledge recent events. This past Friday, the Israeli military [shot 773 Palestinians who were protesting for the right to return at the border of the Gaza strip, killing at least 15 people.](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/mar/31/palestinians-hold-day-of-mourning-after-773-shot-with-live-ammunition) This past Friday was also Pesach, a Jewish holiday in which we remember our history as an oppressed people and celebrate our freedom from oppression through a ritual meal. The juxtaposition of these events occurring on the same day is particularly disgusting, horrifying. We are now the oppressors, and have been for the last 70 years.

To be American, Israeli, and Ashkenazi Jewish is to be irreconcilably complicit in multiple ongoing colonizations. The existence of Israel is founded on the theft of land and the exile and erasure of the Palestinians. A truly decolonized Palestine would probably require an end to the nation-state of Israel as it currently exists, despite talks of two-state solutions.

To bring things back to the readings, I'm questioning how I can adopt a decolonial position as an Israeli, and whether that is even possible. As Nasrin Himada puts it (although it means something different when she asks), "what does it mean to live on this land knowing it must be given back? How does one live on this land knowing it will be given back?" If [decolonization is not a metaphor](http://www.decolonization.org/index.php/des/article/view/18630), then maybe decolonization means an end to the Israeli identity. I really don't know what the answer is.

Although it wasn't in the assigned readings, I also ended up reading M. NourbeSe Philip's [Interview with an Empire](https://experimentalpoetsofcolor.files.wordpress.com/2016/09/interview-with-an-empire.pdf), which Himada links to in her writing. NourbeSe writes about the limitations of attempting to speak her truth in English, the "father tongue" of her oppressors, and how those limitations necessitate a linguistic "decontamination process" in her poetry, a process of taking language apart and putting it back together again. She addresses the question of how to claim space for herself in a language that was not made with her in mind, but is all that is available to her.
