Nasrin Himida spoke of numerous emotional examples that made me think about people and the narratives that they carry. There has been so many happenings in the world, people who struggle to find peace/shelter/safety in the land that they call home, families who are forced to live elsewhere for fear of being exiled to holy land being taken away from them because of political interest. These events are just like the cover of a book, the content that runs in the pages are the narratives you find from each individual families/people. Their narratives are heart wrenching, filled with unintentional adventures, the kind where you pray they don't have to experience it. It is disheartening to realize that these narratives are more often than not told by word of mouth, extracted by memories that they etched securely in their mind. As Nasrin pointed out, memories dissipate when the person depart from this physical world or the state of mental health. My late grandmother often had countless stories from her younger days. Her experience from the world war 2 when Singapore was invaded by the Japanese was the one that kept lingering in my mind. However, recalling back those stories made me reflect on why I could still remember every detail of her story. My grandmother loves to repeat her stories even though she knew she told us before. Each time she tells me her story, she engages with much enthusiasm and emotions that It remained constant through the times she repeated herself. But I understood then that by repeating her story to us, it gives her comfort to her well-being, it pleases her to know that her experiences are being heard and not forgotten. I now wish I had use technology to record her experiences, and with those narratives, I could marry it with emerging media as a vehicle to remember her and those times where I sit and listen to her and be recalled of her precious narratives, told with full enthusiasm and emotion.  
