I especially liked the Letter From an Arts Worker exchange, in particular the comparison of and language used to describe the different types of arts institutions. It was telling to compare the differences in descriptions of the organizational culture at organization with mostly black employees with institutions with little diversity. The former were described as safe and welcoming - notably, for the authors' entire person: physical, emotional, spiritual - whereas the later were described with caution and as sometimes dangerous places.

In the letters, the metaphor of canary in the mineshaft was used to describe working the experience of a black woman working in an organization with few (if any) other black employees. It was interesting to compare this with the weather forecast metaphor - giving a mentee advice about an organization only to find that the organization has totally changed. It really drove home the fact that, while organizations can seem like bureaucratic monolithic things, they are composed of people, and are the result of the actions taken by individuals. An organization that might be dangerous in one moment could have a couple of staffing changes and suddenly be a safe place a few months later.

There were many interesting parallels with the letters and with my own work at the library. As with many other cultural heritage organizations, there is growing conversation among libraries about creating work environments and organizational cultures that foster diversity, inclusion, and belonging. This will be one of five core areas of our next strategic plan, and there are many interesting lessons to learn from these letters. The language used in the letters illustrates how improving diversity in the workplace cannot be approached in the same way as, for example, improving the user experience of the library catalog. The work needs to be much more nuanced, and there needs to be more room for open-ended dialog. The kind of dialog that doesn't result in action items or lend itself to easy solutions. Some of these conversations will just result in improved awareness, and will include uncomfortable truths.
